Release notes for the Logging and Build API teams. (#29270)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-7-release-notes.adoc

See xref:../operators/operator_sdk/osdk-about.adoc#osdk-about[Developing Operators] for full documentation on the Operator SDK.

=== Builds

[discrete]
[id="ocp-4-7-buildah-version"]
// https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1907407
==== Print the buildah version to the build log

> In current version, when the {product-title} performs a build and the log level is 5 or higher, it writes the buildah version information to the build log. This information helps Red Hat Engineering reproduce bug reports. Previously, this version information was not available in the build logs.

Reviewer: lgtm

When using installer-provisioned installation on bare metal nodes, {product-title} 4.6 required providing two IP addresses from the `baremetal` network to the `provisioningHostIP` and `bootstrapProvisioningIP` configuration settings when deploying without a `provisioning` network. These IP addresses and configuration settings are no longer required in {product-title} 4.7 when using installer provisioned infrastructure on bare metal nodes and deploying without a `provisioning` network.

==== Removed images

> The following images were removed in this release:

Reviewer 2: Perhaps a *little* more elaboration here @rolfedh, like 

The following images are no longer included in the samples imagestreams provided with OCP

or some such

the list itself matches what I have from our recent email exchange ... so cool deal there

thanks @rolfedh !!

Author: @gabemontero  I tried to make this change but am having merge issues. Doubly complicated because every other OpenShift writer is submitting changes to this file. I'll add that phrase in a new PR after this PR merges.  RHDEVDOCS-2653 - Tweak image removal phrase in 4.7 RNs
Update to:
```
==== Removed images from samples imagestreams
The following images are no longer included in the samples imagestreams provided with {product-title}:
```

Author: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDEVDOCS-2653

Reviewer 2: 10-4 thanks @rolfedh

----
registry.redhat.io/ubi8/go-toolset:1.13.4
registry.redhat.io/rhdm-7/rhdm-decisioncentral-rhel8:7.8.1
registry.redhat.io/rhdm-7/rhdm-decisioncentral-rhel8:7.8.0
registry.redhat.io/rhdm-7/rhdm-kieserver-rhel8:7.8.1
registry.redhat.io/rhdm-7/rhdm-kieserver-rhel8:7.8.0
registry.redhat.io/rhpam-7/rhpam-businesscentral-monitoring-rhel8:7.8.1
registry.redhat.io/rhpam-7/rhpam-businesscentral-monitoring-rhel8:7.8.0
registry.redhat.io/rhpam-7/rhpam-businesscentral-rhel8:7.8.0
registry.redhat.io/rhpam-7/rhpam-kieserver-rhel8:7.8.1
registry.redhat.io/rhpam-7/rhpam-kieserver-rhel8:7.8.0
registry.redhat.io/rhpam-7/rhpam-smartrouter-rhel8:7.8.1
registry.redhat.io/rhpam-7/rhpam-smartrouter-rhel8:7.8.0

> ----

Reviewer: /cc @gabemontero

* Previously, queries to the root endpoint to retrieve the Elasticsearch version received a 403 response. The 403 response broke any services that used this endpoint in prior releases. This error happened because non-administrative users did not have the MONITOR permission needed to query the root endpoint and retrieve the Elasticsearch version. The current release fixes this issue: It updates the permission set to allow querying the root endpoint for the deployed version of Elasticsearch. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1906765[*BZ#1906765*])

*Builds*

> * Previously, Dockerfile builds could not change permissions of `/etc/pki/ca-trust` or create files inside it. This issue was caused by fixing link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1826183[*BZ#1826183*] in version 4.6, which added support for HTTPS proxies with CAs for builds and ALWAYS mounted `/etc/pki/ca-trust`. This prevented builds that included their own CAs or modified the system trust store from working correctly at runtime. The current release fixes this issue by reverting Bug 1826183. Now, builder images that include their own CAs work again. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1891759[*BZ#1891759*])

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Previously, Dockerfile builds could not change permissions of the `/etc/pki/ca-trust` directory or create files inside it. This issue was caused by fixing link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1826183[*BZ#1826183*] in version 4.6, which added support for HTTPS proxies with CAs for builds and *always* mounted `/etc/pki/ca-trust`, which prevented builds that included their own CAs or modified the system trust store from working correctly at runtime. The current release fixes this issue by reverting Bug 1826183. Now, builder images that include their own CAs work again. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1891759[*BZ#1891759*])
```

> * Previously,  after upgrading from {product-title} version 4.5 to version 4.6, trying to git clone from a private repository failed because builds did not add proxy information to the git configuration that was used to pull the source code. As a result, the source code could not be pulled if the cluster used a global proxy and the source was pulled from a private git repository. The current release fixes this issue: It corrects how git is configured when the cluster uses a global proxy. Now, performing git clone can pull source code from a private git repository if the cluster uses a global proxy. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1896446[*BZ#1896446*])

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Previously, after upgrading from {product-title} version 4.5 to version 4.6, running `git clone` from a private repository failed because builds did not add proxy information to the Git configuration that was used to pull the source code. As a result, the source code could not be pulled if the cluster used a global proxy and the source was pulled from a private Git repository. Now, Git is configured correctly when the cluster uses a global proxy and the `git clone` command can pull source code from a private Git repository if the cluster uses a global proxy. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1896446[*BZ#1896446*])
```

> * Previously, the node pull secret feature did not work: Node pull secrets were not used if `forcePull: true` was set in the Source and Docker strategy builds. As a result, builds failed to pull images that required the cluster-wide pull secret. The current release fixes this issue. Now node pull secrets are always merged with user-provided pull secrets. As a result, builds can pull images when `forcePull: true` is set and the source registry requires the cluster-wide pull secret. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1883803[*BZ#1883803*])

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Previously, the node pull secret feature did not work: node pull secrets were not used if `forcePull: true` was set in the Source and Docker strategy builds. As a result, builds failed to pull images that required the cluster-wide pull secret. Now, node pull secrets are always merged with user-provided pull secrets. As a result, builds can pull images when `forcePull: true` is set, and the source registry requires the cluster-wide pull secret. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1883803[*BZ#1883803*])
```

> * Previously, OpenShift builds failed on Git clone when SCP-style ssh locations were specified. This was caused by Golang URL parsing, which does not accommodate Git SCP-styled ssh locations. As a result, OpenShift builds and Source-to-Image (S2I) failed when those types of source URLs were supplied. The current release fixes this issue: It augments the builds and S2I to bypass Golang URL parsing and strip the `ssh://` prefix. Now, OpenShift Builds and S2I accommodate Git SCP-styled ssh locations (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1884270[*BZ#1884270*])

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Previously, {product-title} builds failed on `git clone` when SCP-style SSH locations were specified because of Golang URL parsing, which does not accommodate Git SCP-styled SSH locations. As a result, {product-title} builds and Source-to-Image (S2I) failed when those types of source URLs were supplied. Now, builds and S2I bypass Golang URL parsing and strip the `ssh://` prefix to accommodate Git SCP-styled SSH locations (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1884270[*BZ#1884270*])
```

+
(link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1913826[*BZ#1913826*])

> * Fluentd pods with the ruby-kafka-1.1.0 and fluent-plugin-kafka-0.13.1 gems are not compatible with Apache Kafka version 0.10.1.0.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Fluentd pods with the `ruby-kafka-1.1.0` and `fluent-plugin-kafka-0.13.1` gems are not compatible with Apache Kafka version 0.10.1.0.
```

+

> As a result, log forwarding to Kafka fails with a message: error_class=Kafka::DeliveryFailed error="Failed to send messages to flux-openshift-v4/1"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a result, log forwarding to Kafka fails with a message: `error_class=Kafka::DeliveryFailed error="Failed to send messages to flux-openshift-v4/1"`
```

+

> The ruby-kafka-0.7 gem dropped support for Kafka 0.10 in favor of native support for Kafka 0.11. The ruby-kafka-1.0.0 gem added support for Kafka 2.3 and 2.4. The current version of OpenShift Logging tests and therefore supports Kafka version 2.4.1.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `ruby-kafka-0.7` gem dropped support for Kafka 0.10 in favor of native support for Kafka 0.11. The `ruby-kafka-1.0.0` gem added support for Kafka 2.3 and 2.4. The current version of OpenShift Logging tests and therefore supports Kafka version 2.4.1.
```
